davidB/README.md, before:


This my notes about migration.

# SETUP Local Mysql DB to store bbpress data

## Install Mysql and start it

I installed mysql/mariadb on my desktop.
```
# Desktop Archlinux as root (see https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/MySQL)
pacman -S mariadb
mysql_secure_installation
systemctl start mysqld
```

To avoid the issue "Cannot load from mysql.proc. The table is probably corrupted", that can be raise by mysql2 + upsert

```
mysql_upgrade -uroot -p
```

## Setup bbpress database

I create a working copy of the bbpress DB to migrate:

```
mysql -u root -p << __EOF__
CREATE USER 'bbpressUser'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'bbpressPwd';
DROP DATABASE IF EXISTS bbpress;
CREATE DATABASE bbpress;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON bbpress.* TO 'bbpressUser'@'localhost' WITH GRANT OPTION;
__EOF__

mysql -u bbpressUser --password=bbpressPwd bbpress < jme_dump.sql
mysql -u bbpressUser --password=bbpressPwd bbpress < purge.sql
```

# SETUP Local Discourse

## Install docker and start it

see you system doc, for archlinux:

```
# Desktop Archlinux as root
pacman -S docker
systemctl start docker
```

## Install discourse-docker

Install discourse on docker (see https://github.com/discourse/discourse/blob/master/docs/INSTALL-digital-ocean.md )
but don't call "./launcher bootstrap app" before reading the following note

I added discourse.localhost in my /etc/host
```
# Desktop Archlinux as root
echo "127.0.0.1 discourse.localhost" >> /etc/hosts
echo "127.0.0.1 smtp.discourse.localhost" >> /etc/hosts
```

I configured smtp with a invalid server to not send email.
I will configure it right to activate admin, temporary later to avoid send email during migration test
As I use my gmail address, I'll use smtp server from google for initial activation of admin account.
```
# /var/discourse_docker/container/app.yaml:

  DISCOURSE_DEVELOPER_EMAILS: 'me@gmail.com'
  ##
  ## TODO: The domain name this Discourse instance will respond to
  DISCOURSE_HOSTNAME: 'discourse.localhost'

  ##
  ## TODO: The mailserver this Discourse instance will use
  DISCOURSE_SMTP_ADDRESS: smtp.discourse.localhost  # (mandatory)
  #DISCOURSE_SMTP_PORT: 25                        # (optional)
  DISCOURSE_SMTP_PORT: 587                        # (optional)
  DISCOURSE_SMTP_USER_NAME: me@gmail.com      # (optional)
  DISCOURSE_SMTP_PASSWORD: *********             # (optional)
```

to prepare the migration, forward access of container port 3306 to host port 3306 so script in container can access mysql:
I replaced a line around 487 in /var/discourse_docker/launcher (to allow docker to access local mysql):

    exec ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no root@${split[0]} -p ${split[1]}

by

    exec ssh -R 3306:localhost:3306 -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no root@${split[0]} -p ${split[1]}

If you boostrap it before made the change, you can call "./launcher rebuild app" (will take few minutes ~10)
```
cd /var/discourse_docker
./launcher boostrap app
./launcher start app
```

Try access `open http://discourse.localhost/`
register an account with the your developer email (eg: me@gmail.com) You should not receive activation email.

Open a shell into container
```
./launcher ssh app
cd /var/www/discourse
```


Temporary enable smtp (you should be root inside the container)

```
# set the right smtp conf
sed -i 's/smtp.discourse.localhost/smtp.gmail.com/' /var/www/discourse/config/discourse.conf
sv restart unicorn  # restart discourse service inside the container
```


re-open http://discourse.localhost/, try to log-in and request resend of activation
you should receive it
log-in, open admin panel > email, send a test email
you should receive it

```
# set the wrong smtp conf
sed -i 's/smtp.gmail.com/smtp.discourse.localhost/' /var/www/discourse/config/discourse.conf
sv restart unicorn  # restart discourse service inside the container
```

Re-open http://discourse.localhost/, log-in, open admin panel > email, send a test email
you should NOT receive it, an error notification should nbe display on admin panel

## Install stuff for migration from mysql

Installed stuff is available until you detroy / rebuild the container

```
# Container as root
# install mysql2 ruby gem for migration script (take time)
apt-get install libmysqlclient-dev
# bundle exec gem install mysql2
cd /var/www/discourse
echo "gem 'mysql2'" >> Gemfile
echo "gem 'upsert'" >> Gemfile
bundle install --no-deployment
```

## Install stuff to convert post_content

```
# Container as root
cd /var/www/discourse/tmp
git clone https://github.com/nlalonde/ruby-bbcode-to-md.git
cd ruby-bbcode-to-md
gem build ruby-bbcode-to-md.gemspec
gem install ruby-bbcode-to-md-0.0.13.gem
```

## Run ruby scripts

Create the script as script/import_scripts/bbpress_2.rb
by default (security) I commented import_XXX instructions

To copy files (**bbpress_2.rb + base.rb**) from my desktop (host) to container :
see stackoverflow :[copying-files-from-host-to-docker-container](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/22907231/copying-files-from-host-to-docker-container)

```
# desktop as root
docker ps # to find the "CONTAINER ID"
cp *.rb /var/lib/docker/devicemapper/mnt/_CONTAINER_ID_follow_by_some_ hex/rootfs/var/www/discourse/script/import_scripts
```
And I use up arrow (last command shell history) to update file.

```
# Container
su discourse
cd /var/www/discourse

#RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec ruby script/import_scripts/bbpress_2.rb
RAILS_ENV=production ruby script/import_scripts/bbpress_2.rb bbcode-to-md
```

If you change the method redirect(oldpath, post_id) to collect rules instead of making redirection, then you have to import redirection via script (generated by bbpress_2.rb or other):
```
# Container
su discourse
cd /var/www/discourse

RAILS_ENV=production rails c </tmp/bbpress_redirection.rb
```

## Post import

When happy with the import's result:

1. backup in discourse
2. check that backup is not in the container
3. restore the backup into your target (production) discourse instance OR into the rebuilded discourse container to have a clean install.

## Commands

*  to reset your database
  Grant superuser rold to discourse account in postgres to avoid issues like :

  * Peer authentication failed for user "discourse"
  * permission denied to create extension hstore (or pg_trgm )

  ```
  # Container as root
  su postgres
  psql -c 'ALTER ROLE discourse SUPERUSER'
  exit
  ```

  Reset the db with service stopped
  ```
  # Container as root
  sv stop unicorn  # stop discourse service inside the container
  su discourse
  cd /var/www/discourse
  RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake db:drop db:create db:migrate
  exit
  sv start unicorn
  ```

* to activate an account without email
  ```
  # Container as root
  cd /var/www/discourse
  su discourse
  RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rails c

  irb> u = User.find_by_username_or_email('myemailaddress@me.com')
  irb> u.password = "azertyuiop"
  irb> u.activate
  irb> u.admin = true
  irb> u.save
  ```

  Wait few minutes, try to log-in on web.
  If discourse say "blabla activation email", wait, reload page, retry (you can do  som ` u.activate`)

# Links

* https://meta.discourse.org/t/how-to-run-an-import-script-in-docker/21599/8
* https://meta.discourse.org/t/paid-need-a-vanilla-2-import-tool/14852/23
* https://meta.discourse.org/t/re-importing-data-after-migration/22058/2
* https://meta.discourse.org/t/advanced-troubleshooting-with-docker/15927
* https://meta.discourse.org/t/redirecting-old-forum-urls-to-new-discourse-urls/20930
* https://meta.discourse.org/t/advanced-troubleshooting-with-docker/15927
* https://meta.discourse.org/t/activate-user-on-a-non-configurated-email-server/9494

Commit message:

README: add "Setup to speed migration"

davidB/README.md, after:


This my notes about migration.

# SETUP Local Mysql DB to store bbpress data

## Install Mysql and start it

I installed mysql/mariadb on my desktop.
```
# Desktop Archlinux as root (see https://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/MySQL)
pacman -S mariadb
mysql_secure_installation
systemctl start mysqld
```

To avoid the issue "Cannot load from mysql.proc. The table is probably corrupted", that can be raise by mysql2 + upsert

```
mysql_upgrade -uroot -p
```

## Setup bbpress database

I create a working copy of the bbpress DB to migrate:

```
mysql -u root -p << __EOF__
CREATE USER 'bbpressUser'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'bbpressPwd';
DROP DATABASE IF EXISTS bbpress;
CREATE DATABASE bbpress;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON bbpress.* TO 'bbpressUser'@'localhost' WITH GRANT OPTION;
__EOF__

mysql -u bbpressUser --password=bbpressPwd bbpress < jme_dump.sql
mysql -u bbpressUser --password=bbpressPwd bbpress < purge.sql
```

# SETUP Local Discourse

## Install docker and start it

see you system doc, for archlinux:

```
# Desktop Archlinux as root
pacman -S docker
systemctl start docker
```

## Install discourse-docker

Install discourse on docker (see https://github.com/discourse/discourse/blob/master/docs/INSTALL-digital-ocean.md )
but don't call "./launcher bootstrap app" before reading the following note

I added discourse.localhost in my /etc/host
```
# Desktop Archlinux as root
echo "127.0.0.1 discourse.localhost" >> /etc/hosts
echo "127.0.0.1 smtp.discourse.localhost" >> /etc/hosts
```

I configured smtp with a invalid server to not send email.
I will configure it right to activate admin, temporary later to avoid send email during migration test
As I use my gmail address, I'll use smtp server from google for initial activation of admin account.
```
# /var/discourse_docker/container/app.yaml:

  DISCOURSE_DEVELOPER_EMAILS: 'me@gmail.com'
  ##
  ## TODO: The domain name this Discourse instance will respond to
  DISCOURSE_HOSTNAME: 'discourse.localhost'

  ##
  ## TODO: The mailserver this Discourse instance will use
  DISCOURSE_SMTP_ADDRESS: smtp.discourse.localhost  # (mandatory)
  #DISCOURSE_SMTP_PORT: 25                        # (optional)
  DISCOURSE_SMTP_PORT: 587                        # (optional)
  DISCOURSE_SMTP_USER_NAME: me@gmail.com      # (optional)
  DISCOURSE_SMTP_PASSWORD: *********             # (optional)
```

to prepare the migration, forward access of container port 3306 to host port 3306 so script in container can access my local mysql (on host):
I replaced a line around 487 in /var/discourse_docker/launcher (to allow docker to access local mysql):

    exec ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no root@${split[0]} -p ${split[1]}

by

    exec ssh -R 3306:localhost:3306 -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no root@${split[0]} -p ${split[1]}

If you boostrap it before made the change, you can call "./launcher rebuild app" (will take few minutes ~10)
```
cd /var/discourse_docker
./launcher boostrap app
./launcher start app
```

Try access `open http://discourse.localhost/`
register an account with the your developer email (eg: me@gmail.com) You should not receive activation email. (see Commands below for an alternative way to activate account, without smtp server).

Open a shell into container
```
./launcher ssh app
cd /var/www/discourse
```


Temporary enable smtp (you should be root inside the container)

```
# set the right smtp conf
sed -i 's/smtp.discourse.localhost/smtp.gmail.com/' /var/www/discourse/config/discourse.conf
sv restart unicorn  # restart discourse service inside the container
```


re-open http://discourse.localhost/, try to log-in and request resend of activation
you should receive it
log-in, open admin panel > email, send a test email
you should receive it

```
# set the wrong smtp conf
sed -i 's/smtp.gmail.com/smtp.discourse.localhost/' /var/www/discourse/config/discourse.conf
sv restart unicorn  # restart discourse service inside the container
```

Re-open http://discourse.localhost/, log-in, open admin panel > email, send a test email
you should NOT receive it, an error notification should nbe display on admin panel

## Setup to speed migration

By default discourse download images on local, including remote image links, gavatar,... This step could take lot of time after the end of the migration script.
I suggest you to **disable download remote images to local** for migration:
[Admin/Settings/Files](http://discourse.localhost/admin/site_settings/category/files). After the migration, you can re-enable it.

## Install stuff for migration from mysql

Installed stuff is available until you detroy / rebuild the container

```
# Container as root
# install mysql2 ruby gem for migration script (take time)
apt-get install libmysqlclient-dev
# bundle exec gem install mysql2
cd /var/www/discourse
echo "gem 'mysql2'" >> Gemfile
echo "gem 'upsert'" >> Gemfile
bundle install --no-deployment
```

## Install stuff to convert post_content

```
# Container as root
cd /var/www/discourse/tmp
git clone https://github.com/nlalonde/ruby-bbcode-to-md.git
cd ruby-bbcode-to-md
gem build ruby-bbcode-to-md.gemspec
gem install ruby-bbcode-to-md-0.0.13.gem
```

## Run ruby scripts

Create the script as script/import_scripts/bbpress_2.rb
by default (security) I commented import_XXX instructions

To copy files (**bbpress_2.rb + base.rb**) from my desktop (host) to container :
see stackoverflow :[copying-files-from-host-to-docker-container](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/22907231/copying-files-from-host-to-docker-container)

```
# desktop as root
docker ps # to find the "CONTAINER ID"
cp *.rb /var/lib/docker/devicemapper/mnt/_CONTAINER_ID_follow_by_some_ hex/rootfs/var/www/discourse/script/import_scripts
```
And I use up arrow (last command shell history) to update file.

```
# Container
su discourse
cd /var/www/discourse

#RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec ruby script/import_scripts/bbpress_2.rb
RAILS_ENV=production ruby script/import_scripts/bbpress_2.rb bbcode-to-md
```

If you change the method redirect(oldpath, post_id) to collect rules instead of making redirection, then you have to import redirection via script (generated by bbpress_2.rb or other):
```
# Container
su discourse
cd /var/www/discourse

RAILS_ENV=production rails c </tmp/bbpress_redirection.rb
```

## Post import

When happy with the import's result:

1. backup in discourse
2. check that backup is not in the container
3. restore the backup into your target (production) discourse instance OR into the rebuilded discourse container to have a clean install.

## Commands

*  to reset your database
  Grant superuser rold to discourse account in postgres to avoid issues like :

  * Peer authentication failed for user "discourse"
  * permission denied to create extension hstore (or pg_trgm )

  ```
  # Container as root
  su postgres
  psql -c 'ALTER ROLE discourse SUPERUSER'
  exit
  ```

  Reset the db with service stopped
  ```
  # Container as root
  sv stop unicorn  # stop discourse service inside the container
  su discourse
  cd /var/www/discourse
  RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake db:drop db:create db:migrate
  exit
  sv start unicorn
  ```

* to activate an account without "sending activation email" (or using smtp server)
  ```
  # Container as root
  cd /var/www/discourse
  su discourse
  RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rails c

  irb> u = User.find_by_username_or_email('myemailaddress@me.com')
  irb> u.password = "azertyuiop"
  irb> u.activate
  irb> u.admin = true
  irb> u.save
  ```

  Wait few minutes, try to log-in on web.
  If discourse say "blabla activation email", wait, reload page, retry (you can do  som ` u.activate`)

# Links

* https://meta.discourse.org/t/how-to-run-an-import-script-in-docker/21599/8
* https://meta.discourse.org/t/paid-need-a-vanilla-2-import-tool/14852/23
* https://meta.discourse.org/t/re-importing-data-after-migration/22058/2
* https://meta.discourse.org/t/advanced-troubleshooting-with-docker/15927
* https://meta.discourse.org/t/redirecting-old-forum-urls-to-new-discourse-urls/20930
* https://meta.discourse.org/t/advanced-troubleshooting-with-docker/15927
* https://meta.discourse.org/t/activate-user-on-a-non-configurated-email-server/9494
